(fun jingle)
Alright, so, before we wrap up the course,
the last thing we're gonna look at very briefly is sets.
Sets are an abstract data type
because they really apply to any data structure.
All a set is, is a data set that doesn't contain duplicates
and so, if something is a set,
it cannot contain duplicate values.
Now, the JDK has support for sets.
I'm at the set interface here and right here, we'll see
it's a collection that contains no duplicate elements
and they explain what that means for Java.
It means that no pair of elements can exist in the set
such that e1.equals(e2) is true.
And so, if the equals method is gonna return true
for two instances then, those two instances
cannot belong to the same set.
And they say that the set can contain one null element.
So, you can come in and read
the rest of the documentation here if you're interested.
There's a lot of support for sets.
We can see here, there's an abstract set, so,
just like with the other interfaces,
if you wanna implement your own customised set,
rather than implementing the interface,
if you extend abstract set,
you'll get a bit of a headstart.
We can see that we have HashSet and if we come over here,
this is an implementation of set
that's backed by a hash table, they say actually, a HashMap
and so, that's an implementation of set.
We've got a linked HashSet and that's a hash table
and linked list implementation of the set interface.
We've got a TreeSet, I mentioned that in the tree section
and so, this is a navigable set implementation
based on a TreeMap and so, if you wanted to build a tree
that has no duplicate elements in it,
you could use this class.
And so, I just, very quickly, wanted to mention sets
because they are an abstract data type
and there is lots of support for them in the JDK.
So, if we come down here to the methods and we see,
we see the add method, it says, adds the specified element
if it's not already present.
In here, for the documentation for add,
they go into, again, details about what they consider to be
a duplicate element.
If we go back to the list of methods now,
we can see that there's also a contains,
as there usually is, there's an iterator, there's a remove
and you can convert the set to an array if you like.
And so, there's really nothing new here
and that's why I didn't wanna spend a lot of time on it,
because, if you understand the other data structures
we've looked at, this is sort of an extra layer
of a requirement and the requirement is just that,
you can't add duplicate items.
And that's it for sets, I'll see you in the next video.